We'll come back in this list and wash surely even more you can do with functions.
So previously we saw how we can when we looked at functions within the console.
They didn't have any value being returned so let's create a brand new function and we'll give it a name
so just call it my fun one and then we're going to set that up and this time what I wanted to do is
I want to return a value so I'm going to return the value of OK.
So now when we invoke mindful I'm one and I'm going to refresh it and open up the console so my find
one and rather rather rounded brackets and we see that now instead of undefined we actually get the
return value.
So basically what this means is that you can set up a variable.
I can give it my fly for one as a function of value and the same thing that we saw before where we declare
a variable.
And if I give the variable the street value of hello and I hit a I get the value of Hello being returned
back.
So I can do the same thing where I can declare a variable value and I can see my phone line.
And because this one now has a return value when I enter in a type and B I've now taken that value that's
being returned from the function.
So let's do that within the editor so that we can declare the value.
My final one.
So now if I go out and if I refreshed the page
I can see that now I've assigned this value to a.
And actually I should make use of that where I want to within my code.
So if I wanted to for instance say I want to update my output of my interglacials you UML rushing I
take this out of the function and let's update the output of each two mail as my phone once when I refresh
it.
We get that return value output there.
So let's do even more that we can do with functions and we can set up and we saw that earlier we can
say and we can have parameters and we can send through various arguments.
So let's make use of that and to set up a number of arguments parameters here and then within my function
I'm going to pass in some values so I'm passing in 4 5 and 6 I'm picking them up within my function
as ABC and then I can utilize them and represent them and make use of them within my function.
So maybe what I want to do is I why use a variable so I don't and declare a variable.
And I'm going to explain this afterwards as well.
So I'm declaring a variable and I'm calling it response.
And all I'm going to do is I'm going to add a plus b plus C and then be the value of response and say
OK I'm going to return this value from response.
So now what's happening is I'm setting the value of my interface to mail to whatever is being returned
here with in my file.
My fun one.
So let's refresh not and we see we get the total value that's put here.
So let's make this even more interesting where we're just good output and update that value within here.
And this is where we're going to make use of that variable.
So we have before we could have just done this with the variable we could help the return values and
we could put it within our HMO.
But because we want to make use of this calculated value somewhere else it's great.
It's great that we have the ability to utilize that with variable.
So now we see that we've got that value here.
And if I open this up and if I do my final one and a bunch of numbers together it's going to update
whatever that output element whatever that return value is.
And so from that to that output element.
So I just want to talk about what we're doing with declaring variables in here because if I open up
the depth and we saw that this variable was being returned back as response.
But if I type in response I'm actually going to get responses not defined.
And if I get a clear response and I give it a value of 66 and then I run my fine one and then now I
try to see the value of response when you see that it's still 66.
So it hasn't changed.
And this has to do with local and Google school and this is an important part about functions and understanding
how variables work within functions is really super important.
So when I'm declaring a variable I can declare it as response and I can give it a value of 55 or something
like that.
And notice this is a string.
And then over here if you want to make use of that because Javascript has dynamic types so it's actually
automatically going to convert it into a number format because we're passing through the numbers here
and then my response will be a number.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
Now that I'm declared response outside of a function and I'm still making use of that within the function.
So when I refresh it it's 15.
And let's see what the output is.
Here's the response and we see that that value is still 15.
So if I actually opti that
using my phone 1 and Melas pass in some numbers there so there will be definitely much larger than 15.
We see that now you find two response.
We actually have that value being held.
So what's happening within the code within the background here is that I'm declaring a response and
this is now treated as a global variable.
And within the function I have access to that variable.
But if within the function itself I read to clear that variable.
So if I declare it like this this is actually going to become local and it's allowing it to update here
within my function.
So let's try that one more time.
Go to a console and we'll take a look at what we've got for response.
And we see that we've got 55.
So it didn't actually change even though we invoke the function because right now response is running
locally within the function.
And basically what that means is once it leaves the function it gets destroyed and it's only it only
lives within the function itself.
So if I want to make use of variables that I'm only using within the function as was the case here was
creating response and I was returning it then I could declare the variable if I want to make use of
a Google how you which I would side with the function.
And I can grab it without doing the variable declaration.
I can assign get used to it and reassign values to every time the function gets them.
So now I want to try it for yourself because it's an important concept to get familiar with with Javascript.
So I don't want you to do is to open up your editor create Bubel variable and give it a values you can
call it a and give it a value of Hello.
And then within the function create another variable called B and give that one a value of world and
then combine hello world together output it and then also respond back with both of those values as
one value within your output.
So adding that returned value into the output.
So go ahead and try to show you the solution coming up.
So this challenge was to create another function and give this one a name my phone too.
And we're not going to pass the arguments you always need to pass arguments but we are going to return
combined value.
And we also said that we want to set up a variable to give a name and call it hello.
And then within a function what I want to do is set up a variable B and I want to combine the global
value of A.
And combine that with out in space as well.
And then lastly it was combine it with world.
So now B contains hello world and we'll return.
Hello world.
And then what we wanted to do was put to the inner h to metal that.
So after the function runs we can return back and put.
Hello world.
So let's start.
Go ahead and do that and we'll see what happens.
So if my find to call.
And then afterwards we're going to
I said we're going to put the return value of my phone to and to put it reached him.
So let's try that out.
And we see that we get.
Hello world.
Return back.
So what's happened here is that we've grabbed the value of a which is global.
We've set local value of b and then we've returned back B and then we've made use of it within our output
by calling the function.
So we're using that return value that's being held within the function.